## **Python with Selenium Behave BDD Framework**

This is a BDD automation framework developed on Selenium and Python Behave.
Behave BDD framework details can be found: https://behave.readthedocs.io/en/stable/ and basic tutorial: https://behave.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial.html

To reduce the duplication, Page Object Model is used in this framework.
Page Object Model, also known as POM, is a design pattern in Selenium that creates an object repository for storing all web elements. It is useful in reducing code duplication and improves test case maintenance.
In Page Object Model, consider each web page of an application as a class file. Each class file will contain only corresponding web page elements. Using these elements, testers can perform operations on the website under test.

**Pages** folder contains the elements and corresponding actions of the pages. BasePage.py contains all functions those are required to be call multiple times from different project to reduce the duplicate code.

**features** folder contains **steps** folder which has all the test files and also the feature files.

**reports** directory contains the json files generated by allure reports

**Utilities** directory contains the customLogger.py and readConfig.py to help get value from config.ini file along with log generation.

**Logs** custom logger implemented for logs of test execution, all logs file can be found on Logs folder.

**requirements.txt** file contains all the python packages needed to run this framework

**PyCharm IDE (Community Edition) is used.**

**Python version - Python 3.10.5**

### **Commands to run the tests**

**To run the test with allure report**
`behave -f allure_behave.formatter:AllureFormatter -o reports/ features/XXYYZZ.feature`

**To run the test without allure report** 
`behave features/XXYYZZ.feature`

**To run the particular scenario**
`behave -n "scenario name"`


**To generate the html allure report from the json files inside Reports folder**
`allure serve Reports/`


**To generate the html allure report from the json files inside Reports folder and open the report in browser**
`/opt/allure-2.24.1/bin/allure generate reports/allure_result -o reports/allure_report --clean`

